Now that you've done all of your sketches you're going to go ahead and pick your favorite ones.
I suggest picking two to three of them.
So for me this one right here is my favorite.
So we're going to go ahead and select the marquee tool and then we're going to select our sketch that
we've chosen and then we're going to copy it by going Control-C on a Windows or command C on a Mac.
Now we're going to create a new document.
So we'll go file new.
And let's make the width of our document about three hundred and fifty pixels and make the height 600.
OK.
And now what we're going to do is we'll copy our sketch into this document by going control V on a Windows
or command VI on a Mac.
So the next step after we've created all of our thumbnails and we've selected one is to start detailing
out this little sketch because as of now he's not much of a character.
He's just sort of some shapes that make up the idea of a pose.
We're going to bring down the opacity of this layer first thing the way you do that is you come over
here by the layers and there is a drop down menu that says opacity.
You hit the down button and you can slide that back and forth.
And that allows you to bring down the opacity.
We want to add about 30 percent.
So now let's add a new layer on this new layer.
We're going to go ahead and start sketching out a more detailed image of our character.
This will have more body form to it and we'll add in the arms and possibly add a little bit of costuming
in there.
So I'll start with the legs.
So I'm going to speed this up a little bit so it doesn't take so long for you to watch me sketch this
character out.
So as you can see here I'm just starting to fill out the form of our character and given him legs feet.
Now I'm going to start filling in that torso and also adding costume pieces such as a scarf.
Then we can start adding in our arms and hands.
And remember this doesn't have to be perfect.
It can be pretty rough and rigid.
There doesn't have to be a ton of definition.
We just want to start seeing those shapes and figuring out what our character is going to look like.
Don't be afraid to mess up because you can always erase it or undo a move.
So really experiment in this phase and try all different types of things until you get the character
looking how you want.
You can also do multiple different sketches as you'll see her soon.
We'll do a second sketch of the same character
as you can see.
I didn't like that nose so I just took it out.
It in a little bit of hair here.
OK so here's a first rendition of our character.
It's very simple.
It's not super detailed and it's a little bit scribbly.
It's not super defined in certain areas like his arm here for example but it's just to get the point
across.
You can start to understand where your character is what they look like what their hairstyle might be
if they're holding a weapon what their pose might be their neutral pose.
Now just like the thumbnail sketches it's important to do multiple versions of these.
So we're going to do a second one now so I'm going to add a new layer and I'm going to turn this sketch
drawing off.
Now in this new layer I'm going to do the same thing but try something different.
So I might change the shapes a little bit do a different costume and a different weapon.
We'll just see how it goes.
So I'm going to start with the legs again so in the second sketch I want to try some different things
so I'm going to do some different shapes for his legs as he saw before his legs were pretty narrow and
skinny.
Sam I want to add some wider legs and some bigger feet.
Big old boots he's wearing.
Maybe a circular body.
No draw on those hands.
Arms.
And like I said it doesn't have to be perfect.
You will probably find that a lot of the sketches you do just don't go in the direction you want or
they just start to look terrible.
And that's completely fine.
Sometimes you might get a little bit stuck so just keep moving your pen or pencil or cursor around and
just keep drawing and keep drawing.
You can always erase take away but just just keep making shapes.
Every now and then stop and think about what you're doing.
But for the most part you just want to keep moving your pencil.
OK.
I'm now finished with my second drawing.
I don't really like it.
I think it looks kind of terrible.
Don't think it looks like a good character but I do like his legs and his boots.
So what if you want to add a part of one sketch to another sketch.
Well I'm going to show you how to do that.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to select the legs off of our character by using
the Lasso tool.
So we'll just draw a shape around him like so and then we're going to copy them which is Control-C on
a Windows and command C on a Mac.
Next we're going to add a new layer.
And now we're going to paste those in which is control VI on a Windows and command VI on a Mac.
Now let's use our grab and move tool and we're going to reposition those so that they line perfectly
up with the original drawing.
Now we're going to turn both these layers off and by the way the way you turn layers off is by hitting
this little eye next to the layer and that will make it so you can't see the layer any more.
Now you can still see these legs because we have this drawing on.
But if we turn that off you'll see now we can't see any of the layers except for our one layer that's
on and our background.
So now let's turn on our original drawing.
Make sure that you have the player selected.
Otherwise you're not going to be able to copy from that layer.
Let's use the Lasso tool to cut out the top half.
And we're just going to copy and paste it as we did before.
So we've copied it.
Now we're going to turn on our layer with the laig.
We can turn this original drawing off.
Now let's come back up to the leg layer and we're going to paste in that half of his body.
I'm using the grab move tool will move him into position.
And now you can see we have the legs that we liked on the top half of the body that we like.
And this is how you can start splicing and slicing your sketches to start creating the character exactly
as you want them.
Now let's try one more with another thumbnail sketch.
So we're going to come back in here.
And let's select a different body.
So I'm going to select this guy with the Lasso tool.
Now I'm using the Lasso tool because there's other sketches pretty close to them.
And by using the square marquee tool it might select bits and pieces of them and I don't want them.
So now let's copy this Scott and we're going to create a new document.
So again let's bring up the size to about 350 and the height to about 600.
OK now we'll paste our character in there and turn down the opacity on his layer to about 30 percent.
Next we're going to add that second layer above it and using our brush tool we can go ahead and get
to work and start sketching.
Our second design for a character.
OK so I finished my first sketch and I like the idea of this character.
He just wasn't sketched out very well so I want to take parts of it and I'm going to continue on with
refining the sketch until it looks the way I want it.
I hope this lecture was helpful for you and you got some really good insight on how a character is brainstormed
and designed.
Thank you for watching.
And I hope to see you in the next lecture.